'\" t
.\" $Id: explode.1,v 1.1 2002/08/15 22:36:55 janssen Exp $
.\"
.\" man page for explode -- a Plucker-to-HTML converter
.\" Copyright 2002 (c) Bill Janssen, <bill@janssen.org>
.\" 
.\" This man page is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This man page is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" explode.1
.TH EXPLODE 1 "Plucker 1.2 - http://plkr.org/"
.SH NAME
explode \- convert a Plucker document to a set of HTML pages and image files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBexplode\fR
[--directory=\fIDIR\fR]
[--verbose]
\fIDOCUMENT-FILENAME\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B explode
converts a Plucker binary document specified by \fIDOCUMENT-FILENAME\fR to a set of HTML pages and JPEG image files in a directory.  The directory used may be explicitly specified, or automatically created by \fBexplode\fR; if automatically created, the pathname of the directory will be output to stdout.  After \fBexplode\fR terminates, the directory will contain a file called "default.html" which contains a transliteration of the root page of the Plucker document, as well as other HTML and image files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--directory=\fIDIR\fR
Specify, as \fIDIR\fR, the full pathname of the directory in which to create the converted version of the document.
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Output various debugging messages to stderr while performing the document conversion.
.SH EXAMPLES
To invoke a browser called \fIwebbrowser\fR on a Plucker document called \fIMenu.pdb\fR, one might say
.sp
\fC% webbrowser file:`explode Menu.pdb`/default.html
.sp
Or alternatively,
.sp
\fC% explode --directory=/tmp/Menu Menu.pdb
.br
% webbrowser file:/tmp/Menu/default.html\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBThe Plucker User's Guide\fR, at \fChttp://plkr.org/docs/\fR.
.SH "BUGS"
As of Plucker release 1.2, there are no provisions for handling margins or colored text.
.sp
Report bugs to http://bugs.plkr.org/ or <plucker-bugs@rubberchicken.org>
.SH "AUTHOR"
Bill Janssen, <bill@janssen.org>
